     =
--- === ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  =======    -L- -I- -B- -E- -R- -E- -T- -T- -O-                 January 1999
 =========
  =======    The iMatix Newsletter                          Volume IV Issue 1
--- === ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     =              Copyright (c) 1999 iMatix Corporation - distribute freely
                                         Back issues at http://www.imatix.com
                                              Comments to: editors@imatix.com

    Programming -- Technology -- Finite State Machines -- News -- Other Stuff


 == COMMENT ---...-.-...-.--...-.--...-.-...-.....---..-....--.--..-.-.---.--

    Last week, I was typing away on my PC, when suddenly the thought struck
    me that it had been a long time since we loaded-up the diesel oil tank
    which supplies our central heating system.  Okay, a quick check showed
    that the tank was pretty much empty.  We called the guys who supply us
    with oil, and they promised to come later in the afternoon.  At that
    instant, the burner went out, and I suddenly understood how primitive
    man felt when a mammoth stepped on his fire in the middle of winter.
    Bummer!  No big deal - the diesel guy came as promised and loaded the
    tank with a fresh load of hydrocarbons.  He cheerfully warned me to wait
    an hour before starting it up, which I did, since I don't like to mess
    with the one thing that fundamentally separates us from primitive man.
    We still sit around in groups, banging our heads against immovable
    objects, grunting and drawing strange pictures.  Only we do it with
    central heating, and we call it 'information technology'.

    So, an hour later, I went to start the burner.  It's real simple: there
    is a little red button that shouts 'press me!!'.  I pressed it.  The
    burner started making rumbling and shaking noises, then growled into
    full action, with a tremendous 'whoosh' as it forced diesel oil under
    high pressure into the ignition chamber.  A second later there was a
    kind of unexplosion, and the same diesel oil billowed out in clouds.
    Ooops!  Not good.  This stuff is supposed to burn, not do a smoke-
    machine imitation.  Bracing myself, I tried again.  Same growling and
    rumbling, then the whooshing of the injector, then 'ploof!' and clouds
    of diesel in my face.

    I phoned the diesel guy, but it was dark outside and already past six
    pm.  'Our offices are closed, please leave a message'.  It was Friday
    evening.  In Belgium, plumbers and diesel people work the same hours as
    civil servants.  Uh-huh.

    One long and cold weekend later, I got the diesel guy on the phone.
    Sure, they could send a specialist round, how about round the middle
    of January?  This is a classic negotiation ploy, which I countered with
    the customary tale of woe about how my aged grandmother had frozen into
    the bath and this was upsetting her.  The diesel guy tried responding
    with indignation that this was surely a problem for the water company,
    but it was only a half-hearted defence, and within two hours he was
    there, to look at my boiler.

    When you describe a problem to a tradesman and he shakes his head
    sideways, and mutters 'tsk-tsk', you know he's figuring how long he can
    make the job last.  Diesel Guy was tsk-ing like an expert.  Finally he
    asked if I had pressed the Red Button.  'Um, yes'.  'Tsk-tsk'.  We went
    to the burner and looked at it.  'Tsk-tsk'.  Then he pressed the Red
    Button.  As the burner moved from growl to rumble and then to whoosh, I
    carefully stepped behind Diesel Guy so he'd get the diesel clouds before
    me.  But the burner just kept whooshing, and after a minute it was clear
    that the thing worked just fine.

    'Air bubbles', said Mr Diesel.  'Just gotta press the button three or
    four times, to clear it, see?  I'll send you the bill.'

    On my desk were some papers that I'd pulled out to find Diesel Guy's
    phone number.  There on top was a FAQ (I swear, these things predate the
    Internet) with the top ten things to do BEFORE you called the heating
    repair guy.  Number one: if your heating stops working, press the Red
    Button up eight or nine times.  If this fails, check point two.  Etc.

    Uh-huh.  Welcome to 1999!

    Pieter Hintjens
    Antwerpen
    1 January 1999


 == NEWS ..---.-...---.--..-.---...-.-.----.-..-.-.-.-.-----..-.-.-.----.-..-

    GSLgen 1.1 Now Available!
        From the depths of the iMatix Research & Development Labs comes a
        new technology for code generation.  GSL (Generic Schema Language)
        does what Libero does for program dialogs, but for anything you
        like.  GSL works a lot like the schema language used by Libero, but
        takes its input from XML files.

        GSLgen is a GSL code generator, and is now available from the iMatix
        website, www.imatix.com.  It's available in three editions:

        * GSLgen Trial Edition is a free package that lets you evaluate
          GSLgen for a limited period.  The Trial Edition is 100% functional
          and not time-restricted.  It's available for Windows, Linux, OS/2.

        * GSLgen Personal Edition is a binary packaging of GSLgen.  GSLgen
          Personal Edition costs US$195 and may be used on one system by one
          developer. It's available for Windows, Linux, OS/2.

        * GSLGen Professional Edition contains the full source code for
          GSLgen and lets you include GSLgen's capabilities in your own
          applications and tools through a simple API.  This is an excellent
          way to build XML-processing tools and code generators.  GSLgen
          Professional Edition costs US$950 and may be used by any number of
          developers within a site.  It's available for Windows, Linux, OS/2,
          other Unix systems, and Digital OpenVMS.

        Check-out http://www.imatix.com/html/gslgen/index.htm and try GSLgen
        today!

    Xitami Introduces Crash Recovery Feature!!
        Not satisfied with making the fastest portable webserver, we've now
        added a feature that is unique to web servers, if not to most kinds
        of software: if Xitami crashes, its Crash Recovery function detects
        this, logs the fault, and restarts Xitami before you can blink.
        Crash Recovery works on Windows 9x and Windows NT at present and is
        included in Xitami from version 2.4c0 onwards.

    Xitami Still in Web Server Top 10!
        The little server that dared to compete against the Big Boys is still
        up there at #2 on www.internet.com.  Number one is Apache.  Thanks to
        all those who downloaded Xitami.


 == OPINIONS ..--...--..--...--..--...---.-.-.-.--...-.-...---....-.-.--..--.

    We polled our editorial staff for their predictions and opinions for
    1999.  Unfortunately most of these were unprintable, so we had to make
    up some stuff.  Here it is:

      * Linux in 1999

        At least five of IBM, Microsoft, Oracle, Sun, Corel, HP, AOL, and
        Novell will produce a Linux distribution for official use.  By the
        end of 1999, the majority of 'Next Generation' Unix systems will be
        based on Linux kernels.  Linux will be understood to be an open
        operating system technology, like TCP/IP is an open networking
        technology, rather than an operating system in its own right.  As
        far as iMatix is concerned, the whole discussion about which OS to
        use is pretty irrelevant.  Software portability makes a lot of
        discussions irrelevant.  We like that.

      * Open Source Software (OSS)

        OSS will become a major trend and be embraced by some major firms.
        This will pose a serious dilemma for the counter-culture hackers
        who keep OSS working, since in order to defeat the establishment
        (Microsoft) they have to become part of it.  We expect to see OSS
        break into the Realists (who believe that commercial funding is a
        necessary evil if you want to reach Joe Public) and the Purists (who
        agree, and feel that this is exactly the problem).  At iMatix we're
        happy with these trends, since they bring credit to our original
        business plan, which was to combine realism and idealism in a mix
        that would harness the power of the OSS development model, while
        still pay for a hamburger every second Tuesday.

      * The Ultimate Gadget

        Arriving some time in late 2000: a credit-card computer that has a
        couple of hundred megabytes of RAM and a fast CPU, probably running
        Linux.  It has jacks for audio output and microphone input.  One side
        has a 200x400 mono LCD touch-sensitive screen with fingertip scribble
        recognition and speech recognition.  At one edge is a tuck-away CCD
        camera.  The LCD screen serves as a view-finder.  The entire card
        plugs into a PC-card slot like the Rex does.  It has a little laser
        pointer, just for fun, and an FM radio receiver built in.  It is a
        GSM portable phone, and agenda and clock radio, camera, MP3 recorder
        and player, and GPS receiver.  It's also an electronic wallet, a
        digital document holder, and a digital ID.  It's so important that
        it has a proximity detector and when it gets father than six feet
        from its owner, it starts to scream.  Runs Xitami. Around a thousand
        bucks in large quantities.  I'll take one, please.

      * Bye-bye Byte Magazine :-(

        In August 1998 we reported that BYTE Magazine, the oldest and (in
        this writer's opinion) the best personal computer magazine was
        bought by CMP Media. They suspended publication, with a little note
        saying 'this is the last BYTE for a while'. Now comes a snail-mail
        card telling us that BYTE will not resume publication. Oh, a BYTE
        subscriber can get compensation through an equal number of something
        called 'Windows Magazine' (humorously described as 'the most
        reliable computer publication in the country covering the future
        of information technology today'), but has to explicitly tick the
        card, and mail it back. No, this does not happen automatically, no,
        there is no option of being refunded the balance, no, this cannot be
        done through e-mail, and no, postage is not included. That growling
        noise you hear is the sound of hundreds of thousands of hackles
        being raised across the globe.  This is a dismal end to a fine
        magazine.  CMP Media treated BYTE's subscribers badly and gets the
        1998 Wooden Spoon Award.  May their stock options go negative and
        their teeth go rusty in strange places!!


 == FOCUS ON TECHNOLOGY -..-..--..-..--..-..--.--.--.--.--.-..-...-.--...-.--

    Xitami Crash Recovery - Interview with the designer

    We talk to the designer of this radical technology, Alex McGregor, and
    get an insight into how iMatix responds to its users' needs.

    Liberetto: Alex, can you tell me a little about the background to this
    technique... what is it, and why did you design it?
    Alex: since the last few releases of Xitami, we've been adding many new
    features, and unfortunately, a few bugs too.  These seem to hit certain
    people only, possibly they're doing something unusual with Xitami.
    Anyhow, we've been spending a lot of effort tracking these down, which
    is quite hard.

    Liberetto: Why?
    Alex: all we get is a message saying something like 'XIWIN32.EXE caused
    an error at address 0ff1b:001e2e1d'.  It's not much help.  If someone
    who's getting a crash like this has a C compiler, they can use the
    debugger to see where it fails.  But very few people are up to this.
    So, we were discussing this, and the fact that people who get this error
    are seriously unhappy to have their server crash on them and I thought:
    if we can't find the problem, at least we can recover from it.

    Liberetto: Was that easy, then?
    Alex: Hmmm.  In fact, we can't do it (yet) under Unix or OS/2.  We can
    do it under Windows because the C compiler provides a way to trap fatal
    errors.  It works because Xitami uses the SFL memory manager (sflmem).
    I was able to simply free all allocated memory, then restart the thread
    which handles the web server.  Xitami pops-up a small Window showing
    where it crashed, and stuffs this in a log file too.  The web manager
    can restart Xitami, or set it to recover automatically.  It's quite
    magical, actually.  Xitami recovers in a fraction of a second.

    Liberetto: What do Unix and OS/2 users get?
    Alex: well, on the way, we improved the tracking that Xitami does
    internally.  You know we use Libero to build the Xitami agents.  So we
    are now able to follow each state, event, and module as they happen.
    When Xitami crashes, it can show or log this information, which is a
    *lot* more useful to us than 'address 0ff1b:00e2e1d'.  The state/event/
    module info tells us exactly what Xitami was doing, and why, when it
    crashed.

    Liberetto: Is this possible with other applications?
    Alex: if you use the same tools we use for Xitami (SMT, SFL and Libero)
    it's possible.  Adding this kind of function to other apps could be
    pretty difficult.  But it'd definitely be a nice trend.  Imagine if your
    computer, when it crashed, politely said 'Sorry, I have a problem', then
    saved your work, and automatically restarted itself, in under a second.

    Liberetto: Keep dreaming!  Okay, thanks for the interview.
    Alex: Yeah, my pleasure!


 == TERMINATE THE PROGRAM -...---...-..----....-.---..---...-...---.-...---.-

    Unlike CMP Media, we're not going to offend you by offering to convert
    your subscription to Liberetto into free copies of Windows Magazine!
    Accept no substitutes!!  You can however end your subscription by
    sending us a mail.
