From: Pieter Hintjens <pahint@eunet.be>
Subject: Liberetto Vol I/3

     .
    /|\    ------------------------------------------------------------------
  /  |  \    -L- -I- -B- -E- -R- -E- -T- -T- -O-                     MAY 1996
 - ( . ) -
  \  |  /    The Libero Newsletter                           Volume 1 Issue 3
    \|/    ------------------------------------------------------------------
     '                          Copyright (c) 1996 iMatix - distribute freely
                                         Back issues at http://www.imatix.com
                                              Comments to: editors@imatix.com

 == EDITORIAL --.-.----...-.-....-.-.--..-.-.-..-.--....-.-.-..-.---..-.-..-.

    1995 was the year of the Internet, so we hear.  I guess a lot of
    journalists discovered the Net in '95.  What they don't realise yet is
    that the Net is re-inventing itself faster than an ex-communist
    politician.  1996 will be the year of the Internet Index.  1997 will
    be the year of the Internet Application.  1998 will be the year that we
    all get T1 access along with cable TV and water.  In 1999 we will wear
    web-watches complete with virtual keyboards; the portable phone will be
    as quaint as a digital quartz watch...

    I love speculating about the future.  But it is the present that is
    most interesting.  Try surfing over to http://www.altavista.digital.com.
    Do a search for 'prehistoric coke machine'.  You'll see what I mean.
    Some people wrote to me pointing out that HTML was not the best way of
    producing documentation.  Sorry, but it is the lingua franca of the Net,
    and it works.  You can see the results of our efforts - all the Libero
    documentation is on-line, and by now has been indexed by Scooter, Alta
    Vista's robot.

    We are rapidly getting to the point where people will expect to find
    just about any information with a few mouse clicks.  People will look
    first on the Net, and secondly in the real world.  What this means for
    the traditional publisher is unclear.  I personally like buying books.
    What this means for the non-traditional publisher is much clearer: get
    it on-line, and get it indexed.

    Pieter Hintjens
    Antwerpen,
    1 May 1996*


 == NEWS ..--.-....-.-.----.-...-...-.---.---.-...-.-.---.-.--..-...-.-.---.-

    Barmaid Denies All Involvement!
        "I thought I was a major event", sobbed Mandy, a gorgeous 23, "but
        he understood never me!"  Undeterred, our brave reporter risked his
        street cred and breakfast to find the truth.  He yahoed and 'scaped
        the depths of alt.bizarre.fsm.bork.bork.bork.  He crawled to alter
        vistas.  Yes, he even posted a question on rec.pets.cats.  We bring
        you more news at 6.

    Dialogs For Dummies, or How I Learnt To Twist My Brain The Libero Way
        It's never too late to try to learn Libero!  Our dummy-on-call,
        Alex, explains how he learnt to think "the Libero way".  Jump to
        the special educational section for more.

    The iMatix Website Saga - We Reveal All
        Our regular readers will have seen it already.  Our iMatix website
        just keeps getting better!  No sell-by date, freshness unlimited!
        All the documentation, all the links, everything that is fit to be
        published.  It's all there.  Naturally, we can only take the credit
        for some of it.  Okay, most of it, if you insist.  But we have to
        thank all of you who regularly send us suggestions, problem reports,
        and frank comments.  Keep it up - we appreciate your input.


 == LETTERS -.--.-.--....-..-.-.----.-.-.-...-.-----....-.--.-..-..-..--.-.-.

    Yes, ecology meets the Internet.  We only use 100% recycled bits.

    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    >From: kris@japan.sbi.com (Shankar Krishnan)
    >Hello,
    >When will Libero write PERL5 code ?
    >Thanks
    >Kris/Tokyo/Japan

    When Perl 5 was announced, there was a great buzzing of activity at
    iMatix world headquarters here in Antwerpen.  "It's got Objects", was
    the cry up and down the corridors.  "Yet more functions and operators!",
    we would hear the receptionists whisper to each other with awe.
    "Readable Regexps Now!", was mystically scrawled on the toilet walls.
    The excitement was as real as an uninvited 2nd cousin when they came
    in a crowd to ask the Guru what he thought.  "Tell us, oh Guru, will
    Perl 5 change our lives?"  "Where can we download it?"  "Will it cure
    my dandruff?".

    The Guru meditated for a few minutes, sipping his cool Koninck.  Then
    he spoke.  "Does it run on my laptop?", he asked the collected crowd.
    The crowd turned to itself and mumbled for a while.  Then it ejected a
    spokesman, Alex, who asked meekly: "Oh Guru, does your laptop run Unix?"
    "No," replied the Guru, "MS-DOS 5.0".  "It will not run on your laptop,
    oh Guru", replied Alex, miserably, for he now saw the Truth.

    "Go off and port Perl 5 to MS-DOS," said the Guru, "so that I can work
    on my scripts and my suntan at the same time.  For what use is a tool
    that you can't take to the beach?"

    [This is self-indulgent schlock: what he really said was: "No problem:
    Perl 4 scripts will run fine under Perl 5, and you can use Libero to
    write Perl 5 scripts right now." -- Ed.]

    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    >From: Bob McGhee <bmg@gnn.com>
    >Subject: Thanks for Libero
    >Hi!  I enjoyed your personal home page.  I have typed lr at a dos
    >prompt so far, and read about Coke machine evolution and your
    >telephone central.  So far it's a blast.  Maybe now I can catch
    >on to finite state thingees.  It's always easier to learn when
    >you can play.  Thanks very much for being so generous.
    >I'm sure I would enjoy being a part of your mailing list.
    >Do sign me up, please.   Thanks/Bob McGhee

    Bob, consider yourself signed-up.  You may want to skip to the section
    at the end, on 'signing down', before it's too late.

    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    >From: uweh@engc.bu.edu (Uwe Hollerbach)
    >Subject: libero mail
    >Hello, Pieter,
    >I'm writing about your program libero, version 2.10, which I
    >downloaded a few weeks ago, and just got around to installing a few
    >days ago. Your announcement (in comp.lang.perl.announce) caught my
    >eye, and I decided to look into this tool. First, let me compliment
    >you on your installation -- the compilation and setup was the easiest
    >I think I have ever done! (I didn't use the install script -- no ksh
    >on my linux machine!) I tried playing with it a bit, and I am having a
    >bit of difficulty understanding how to use it. To start with, I tried
    >running your coke machine example, and fleshing it out a bit.  The
    >libero part of that appears to work flawlessly, and the generated code
    >compiles entirely cleanly, but I am having a bit of trouble
    >understanding which part does what, and when. In particular, I don't
    >get the output I expect for the coke machine's output: it can be nice
    >or nasty, and it should dispense the requested item if nice, and the
    >opposite if nasty. In the sample code I tried, which I have included
    >below, it always gives the requested item, even if it claims to be
    >nasty. I'd be most grateful if you'd have a look and tell me what I'm
    >doing wrong. Thanks for making this tool available!
    >Best regards,
    >Uwe Hollerbach

    Heh, I never meant anyone to actually *make* the Coke Machine into
    a real program...  Let's see what Uwe is doing.  Remember that the
    Coke Machine is either in a good, or in a bad mood:

    Cooperate:
        (--) Coke                       -> Something-Happened
            + Eject-Can-Of-Coke
            + Wait-For-A-Punter
        ...

    Be-Nasty:
        (--) Coke                       -> Something-Happened
            + Eject-Can-Of-Juice
            + Wait-For-A-Punter
        ...

    This is how Uwe set the next event:

    if _LR_state == _LR_STATE_cooperate
        the_next_event = punter_choice;
    else
        switch (punter_choice) {
            case coke_event:
                the_next_event = juice_event;
                break;
            case juice_event:
                the_next_event = coke_event;
                break;
            case spring_water_event:
                the_next_event = sweeto_sap_event;
                break;
            case sweeto_sap_event:
                the_next_event = spring_water_event;
                break;
        }

    This code looks reasonable, but is (sorry, Uwe) completely wrong.
    In fact, you should just replace it by:

        the_next_event = punter_choice;

    Why?  Well, it is the *dialog* that decides the consequence for a
    particular event.  As Big Al tries to explain (but he is new at this)
    in the Special Educational Section, it's like two people separated by
    a wall.  The one person (the program) can only shout event names, like
    'JUICE!' over the wall.  The second person (who is the dialog) can only
    shout module names, like 'EJECT JUICE'.  The first person does not know
    what the second is doing, nor vice-versa.  If the dialog is in the
    'nasty' state, the second person will shout 'EJECT COKE' instead.  So,
    code like "if _LR_state == _LR_STATE_cooperate" is totally out.  Baaad.

    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
    >From uweh@engc.bu.edu (Uwe Hollerbach)
    >Subject: Re: Coke machines
    >Thanks for the answer! I have printed out the manual, and have stared at
    >the coke machine some more, and I think I got it to work satisfactorily.
    >I'm going to try a few simple other things relating to my own work, but
    >I believe I am grasping the concept. Thanks again for a useful tool!
    >Best regards,
    >Uwe Hollerbach
    >PS Am I really the only person to have implemented the coke machine?
    >That's truly bizarre!

    Not half as bizarre as some things I've seen.  The other day someone
    asked me why their state machine was not working.  Like I usually do,
    I said: "Not working?  How 'not working'?".  "I raise an exception
    event but the program does not stop."  "Okay", I said, "show me your
    program."  Big mistake.  This was her dialog:

    After-Init:
        (--) Ok                         ->
            + Initialise-Program-Data
            + Do-The-Work
            + Terminate-The-Program
        (--) Error                      ->
            + Terminate-The-Program

    The module 'Do-The-Work' was several thousand lines of COBOL code.  You
    can guess what my advice was.

    [Actually, Mr. Hintjens spent about two hours designing a dialog with
    the lady in question, who was grateful either for the advice, or just
    because he finally left.  We aren't certain. - Ed.]


 == SPECIAL EDUCATIONAL SECTION --.-.---...-.---.-...--.-.---.-....-.-..----.

    From Alex McGregor, our newly-appointed Educational Correspondent:

    iMatix asked me to write a small piece on how I learnt to use Libero.
    After a short discussion about fees and expenses, I quickly learnt to
    use Libero, applying the principle 'imagine I am a child of 5'.  "No,
    don't try to interest me in plastic bunnies.  Explain Libero to me."

    "Right, kids, get into two groups.  You lot sit there, and you lot sit
    there.  Now, we'll play a game..."

    The first group of kids sit around a large playing board, marked with
    a large 'START' square, and paths that twist around.  Some end in the
    Snake Pit, others die horrible deaths in the Bathtime Room.  Just one
    path leads through all the dangers to the Cookie Room.  The aim of
    the game is to get to the Cookie Room, of course.  Let's look at the
    START square.  You are in a small room.  Twisty passages lead left,
    right, north, and south.  You are holding a candle.  There is a small
    breeze coming from the west.  The floor is blue.  Blue?  Yeah.

    The second group of kids have three or four funny dice.  Each die is a
    different colour, with size sides.  The blue die says 'Left', 'Right',
    'Forwards', 'Backwards', 'Roll Again', and 'Bathtime'.  The red die
    says 'Fight', 'Run', 'Get Eaten', 'Eat it', 'Order a taxi', and
    'Bathtime'.  (You gotta know how to *really* scare a five-year old.)

    The rules are simple.  The first group of kids just shout a colour.
    The second group of kids roll the matching die and - after puzzling
    over the letters a while - shout out what the die says.  Each time the
    die rolls, the first group move their piece along the board to a new
    square.

    You start to see the balance of the game.  Neither group of children
    controls the game, it moves step-by-step until the piece wins or loses.
    The two groups only communicate by exchanging colours and results.
    Well, this is Libero.  Colours are actions, results are events.  And
    that was the easiest lunch I ever earned.

    Alex McGregor
    alex@imatix.com


 == POST MORTEM .-.---...-.-...---.-.---..-.-.-..-.---.------.-.....-.-.-..--

    [This letter arrived in our inbox.  I think someone is mocking us - Ed.]

    From: travesty@perl.cod APR 01 MET 1996
    Subject: Thank you all for your friends and family. Such get in
    get & showed enough managing compress be conforming HTML your
    iMatix kill skip time will for is speaker learnt told only
    existing Why regards Multithreading is pass as can trouble report.
    tell surprisingly the like of is the horse's mouth for Libero I've
    downloaded your Libero materials for Windows.

    I used a UNIX script a bit like this: echo Generating. The htmlpp
    (besides being a useful tool) is a small and clean language that
    can be surprisingly useful. before the old Turing Machine. Jim is
    of course Libero.  install.sh...  Focus On C is often critised for
    being unreadable, GNU Gawk myself.

    I was delighted by your explanations and look forward to learning
    about your tool. Learning to program has been ported across three
    or four systems, it starts to look at my work, I have a finite
    memory, and that Turing machines are strictly more powerful that
    FSM and that Turing machines are fundamentally different. Automata
    theory showed (in the early 1960's) that FSM can perform a rather
    limited set of actions, primarily because they have a play with it
    so I'm not certain the port is perfect (for one thing I noticed in
    your docs.

    Contrary to what you maintain ksh is not so important if not the
    fact that your install scripts are ksh based. Most likely bash
    will accept them as well, but this implementation uses the C
    library to get the whole Libero documentation is now part of our
    toolkit: we will support and and improve Libero as long as we are
    here. And when we have been getting. This is with EMX 0.9b (gcc
    2.7.2) Onto a HPFS file system; if it runs quickly, is very
    portable, and is not so important if not the first to point this
    out, but.... Finite state machines and Turing machines are
    strictly more powerful that push down automata are strictly more
    powerful that push down automata. This is still an early beta
    version, but interesting to anyone who is involved in internet
    programming or multithreaded programming. We are working on a very
    well put together distribution set.

    My main machine runs OS/2 Warp, but I've got another one here
    running Linux. I figured I'd download the source and the Linux
    binary. I still haven't got to the business section for more news.
    Extracts from some of your examples. For the more official bit:
    What version of the poorest countries in the same solution, which
    is a bit like this: echo Generating install.sh... awk '/^function/
    { print $2 " ()"; next } print $0 }' < install.mod >
    install.sh.mod lr install -schema=lrschema.sh. We will also
    provide an 'exploded' version of the coolest tools I've used in a
    very long digital tape. Personally, I was sound asleep at this
    point in our Computer Science courses. Let's just say that Libero
    is free software, and will always be free software. You can
    safely assume a presence of /bin/sh (Bourne), but this is a dream
    come true. Very often, you'll think: how do I do this particular
    fiddly thing with a piece of data... and scanning through the
    Perl manual you'll find that Larry Wall have a language
    independent meta-language? Is there a schema avalible for java?

    Do you have not yet tried this language, perhaps it's time. Perl
    has been ported & tested on various Unix's, and on Windows (Win
    95). We plan to port it to more Unix platforms and Vax/VMS before
    we are here. And when we have been getting. This is a great and
    heart-warming response. Thank you for Libero that lets you create
    and kill threads, pass messages between threads, and (most
    importantly) do asynchronous i/o so that one thread cannot block
    another while waiting for input on a very cool tool, and I'm re
    -writing it using Libero as long as we are here. And when we have
    been getting. This is more of a Perl program written using
    Libero. Download it from the iMatix site should get an Invalid
    Property Value Peter, Downloaded Libero 2.11 on your system. Turn
    to the example set as time goes on.

    If you give the program /help=no as an alternate didn't quite work
    because the OS/2 binary once I've had a chance to try to make
    sense of such messages and will always be free software. You can
    use Lynx, or a graphical browser. We will also provide an
    'exploded' version of the poorest countries in the same solution,
    which is a good example at
    http://www.imatix.com/pub/libero/example/erbot.zip. Subject:
    Invalid Property Value error when I try to make sense of such
    messages and will always be free software. The SFL and Universal
    Header File (take a look at it. First off congratulations on a
    local hard-disk. Just follow the links... To build this
    documentation we developed a new way to solve the problems that
    face us all. Some people, however, fear competition. Their
    reaction to this system. Last month I was impressed: the
    explanations were clearer than many I have seen the future, and
    it's spelt "double-u ee bee". Be that as it may, I've decided to
    maintain the documentation file in any other format? I would be
    happy to know that this is simply too heavy. Hey, contributions
    for a few questions, however.

    it is identical to 2.11. This beta will not be empty. One more
    thing I could turn on some optimisation :-) ), but it appears to
    run at least as far as reading settings files, displaying help,
    and printing error messages. I'm going to have a look at the
    index file, and off you go! You can browse on-line if your
    daddy's rich, or download the whole set in one scoop I had
    finally found a raison d'etre for the windows version 2) Will
    there be an ini file or I presume on the links and tables of
    contents. Should be ready by the time you read this you can
    contribute, drop us a line. But be warned: we only use the best.
    To get off this mailing list send a message to mail@imatix.com
    with a subject line along the lines of 'no more liberetto
    please'. Our Variant Intelligence Processor will try to ignore
    the news.

    Turn to the GNU GPL, and will either break open, or break apart.
    What about Libero? Is this relevant? I believe so. I made this
    tool would be helpful to use gzip or compress for unix versions,
    zip is not so difficult to learn. Many useful Perl programs that
    you decided to separate examples archive.

    Sigh! No big deal. I had finally found a raison d'etre for the
    Sparc and Iris binary kits.

    More extracts from your software--FSM are useful for lots of
    things, however they are not universal computation engines like
    Turing machines. Jim Aaargh! And I thought that ANSI C compiler.
    And I thought that I made a Bourne sh version (install.sh) which
    is a more positive answer. On the top of it you decided to cut
    -off an access to ftp site. Instead of getting everything in one
    file, for easy printouts.

    Secondly congratulations on a fuller kit for the same state
    machine. Each thread gets its own state and event values, managed
    automatically by the time the chicken has crossed the road. If
    you had trouble with the documentation A latex version of the
    .VBX or .DLL files lying around on the links from the Web pages
    until it's been well tested. This can only be described as a Good
    Thing.

    More news at six! Documentation coming online... The gnomes are
    taking extra caffeine, and working double-time to get Libero
    compiled and running on FAT as well. (HPFS is a clean, small, and
    useful language that you'll be happy to know that I made this
    tool free, to all people. Knowledge cannot be the property of one
    of the documentation.

    But, these are all water in the near future. If this kernel
    interests you, download it and take a look at it. First off
    congratulations on a well designed web site -- fast to load, and
    informative.  Secondly congratulations on a very long time. I
    have a lot in common. The world became a nicer place to start.
    It's a great example. Follow the links from the Web pages until
    it's been well tested.  Multithreading... Seem's it's simple.

    To get off this mailing list send a message to mail@imatix.com
    with a piece of data... and scanning through the Perl manual
    you'll find that Larry Wall already built an answer into the
    language. Despite the wide scope of the documentation.

    ["We will also provide an 'exploded' version of the coolest tools
    I've used in a very long digital tape."  What you been *smoking*??
    - Ed.]


 == TERMINATE THE PROGRAM -...---...-..----....-.---..---...-...---.-...---.-

    If you have had enough of Liberetto you have had enough of life.  So,
    we'll send Dr Kervokian around with his wee machine.  Alternatively,
    just e-mail us and tell us what it is about this newsletter that bores,
    irritates, or outrages you, and we'll publish your letter in the next
    issue so that we can all have a good laugh.

    [Pay no attention, these cheap staff writers get crabby sometimes - Ed.]

    * Margin of error = 1 weekend or two large beers.
