     =
--- === ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  =======    -L- -I- -B- -E- -R- -E- -T- -T- -O-                   April 1999
 =========
  =======    The iMatix Newsletter                          Volume IV Issue 4
--- === ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     =              Copyright (c) 1999 iMatix Corporation - distribute freely
                                         Back issues at http://www.imatix.com
                                              Comments to: editors@imatix.com

    Programming -- Technology -- Finite State Machines -- News -- Other Stuff

    SPECIAL SPRING BUMPER ISSUE!!

 == COMMENT ---...-.-...-.--...-.--...-.-...-.....---..-....--.--..-.-.---.--

    Imagine the scene... an office littered with pizza boxes and soda cups,
    in the distance, a small metallic voice repeats the phrase 'Thank you
    for trying Windows 1999, do you want to play again?' over and over again.
    It's late summer of 1998, and we're a fly on the wall of Steve Ballmer's
    office, as the top staff of Microsoft hold a noisy emergency meeting.
    There's a hint of panic in the air.  It appears there is a problem...
    Suddenly the door opens, a figure steps into the room, and everyone
    stops talking.  Bill's back in town, and someone's gonna get it.

    "Ah hear you suckers are havin' problems with business", he drawls,
    taking a moment to hawk and spit into a half-full cup of coke.  "Ah jus
    done turn ma back, and you yellerbellied goofs messin' things up!"
    Bill is not pleased.  He must have heard the news.  "Dang, a man can't
    even try find his inner self without everyone screwin' things up!"

    He steps up to one of the Microsoft VPs, who blanches when Bill's breath
    hits his face.  Too many years of chewing tobacco and finger nails have
    left their mark.

    "Justice department, shmustice department, no big deal.", he says.
    "All great American companies get nailed by the Feds.  We still paying
    our taxes?"  The finance VP nods.  "So how come Windows 99 is gonna be
    a year late?"  Steve Ballmer mutters: "Actually, we were thinking of
    calling it Windows 2001".  Bill's face goes red, then fades back to its
    normal vanilla.  "Son, yer lucky Ahm here.  We gotta kill this Chucky
    Doll dead for once an' for all.  Ah got myself an idea".

    Bill pulls up a chair, tosses his cowboy hat and accent into a corner,
    and explains his plan...

    A month or two later, on Halloween, the world is shocked to hear that an
    internal Microsoft memo describes the Open Software movement, and Linux,
    as a serious challenge.  Intel buys a stake in RedHat, and before you
    can say 'Press Ok To Reboot', Linux is propelled into the spotlight as
    the premier operating system for the next millenium.  Microsoft's
    competitors adopt Linux, Apache, and other OS developments, and pump
    money into porting and refining them.  Sun, IBM, Compaq, and Corel
    announce that they will supply Linux on their systems.  Someone is
    spending big bucks to boost Linux in the press, and I'm not talking
    about the low-budget groups who created it and distributed it up to now.

    Meanwhile, Microsoft is quietly porting MS Office, ActiveX, DCOM, and
    the MS Visual tools onto Linux.  They find that this is surprisingly
    easy.  Most of the libraries already exist, and are actually fast and
    stable!  This is a revelation to the Microserfs working on Linux.

    Let's not be too surprised when Microsoft announce their own Linux
    distribution, MS-Linux, with a smooth installation program, Office
    and Visual Studio and several MS-specific bugs, running on Intel,
    Alpha, Mips, and Macintosh.  I presume they will release Windows 2000
    anyhow, to save face, but this is the last generation of Chucky Doll
    operating systems, I reckon.

    Would *you* spend billions developing Windows 2002 when there was a
    better alternative waiting to be picked-up off the shelf for free?
    Nah, me neither.  Remember, you read it here first.

    Pieter Hintjens
    Antwerpen
    1 April 1999


 == ANALYSIS -..-....---..-.-.--...---...-...---...-.---..-..--..-..-..---..-

    Clearly we're interested by the evolution of Open Source, since we were
    one of the first companies to integrate an Open Source approach into
    our business strategy from the very first day.  So, here's our analysis
    of the future of OS...

    Why Open Source will crash in flames in 1999:

    1.  The OS movement is being ruthlessly exploited by big commercial
        interests and this will turn-off the idealistic hackers who make it
        all work.

    2.  The OS movement depends on too few key people (like Linus Torvalds)
        who are starting to become a bottleneck.

    3.  When commercial interests perceive an OS project as a threat, they
        will simply buy-out the group and bury the project.  www.ssleay.com
        is a sad example of this.

    Why Open Source will explode in the Third Millenium:

    1.  OS works better than any other approach we have for developing
        software.

    2.  OS software is usually better, faster, and more portable than
        anything commercial.  The fact that it's free is nice too.

    3.  The Internet makes it cheap to develop and distribute software.
        No shrink-wrapped box can compete with electronic delivery.  (Uh,
        I guess this applies to music too.  Next big thing: OS music?)

    4.  When a commercial interest tries to bury an OS project, it simply
        stimulates five times as many people to revive it.  You cannot put
        the genie back into the bottle.  www.openssl.org is a nice example
        of this.


 == NEWS .--...-.-..--..-..-..----.---...---...-.-.-...--....---.-..--..---..

    iMatix Announces World's First Personnel Web System!
        Having trouble finding your personnel?  In today's rapidly moving
        world, it can be a real challenge to locate key people.  Rather than
        calling their mobile phones and asking 'where are you?', take a look
        at the innovative Personnel Web System (PWS) from iMatix.  Full
        details below...

    Xitami makes Internet.Com's 'Hall of Fame 1999'!
        After a year in the Web Server Top 10 at Internet.Com's ServerWatch
        site, Xitami has once again been selected for this honour.  Never
        lower than #3, Xitami has spent most of the year at #2, behind
        Apache.  Well, you can't win them all!  Yet.

    GSLgen scheduled for Open Source Release
        Our top-of-the-line code generator, GSLgen, will be released as
        Open Source this year.  iMatix CEO Pieter Hintjens says 'We will
        release the full source code for GSLgen 1.2 as Open Source, once
        we're finished with a set of improvements to the current version,
        making it faster and more powerful.'  Asked how iMatix could afford
        to give away something as valuable as GSLgen, he said: 'GSLgen is a
        key technology for the future development of Libero, SMT, Xitami,
        and iMatix Studio, and we've always had the policy of making our
        technologies Open Source, even as we develop commercial products
        and services on top of those technologies.  Giving away GSLgen
        will strengthen our position as a leading Open Source technology
        provider.'  Weehaaw!  Whistle-whistle, clap-clap, cheer-cheer!!

    Xitami Features In JAWN!
        JAWN - Just Another Weekly Newsletter - features Xitami!  Issue 4,
        22 February 1999, says: "Usage: Download. Install. Run. Serve.
        Description: Fast. Free. Small. Sources included."  Read JAWN at
        http://www.infomediasystems.com/bernard/jawn/.

    Xitami/Pro Free For Evaluation
        Xitami/Pro is now available for free evaluation from xitami.com.
        This server supports full SSL, on top of the solid Xitami kernel.
        The free download runs on Windows, so should not be used for
        production sites.  Rats, we shouldn't have said that!
        

 == NEW PRODUCTS -..-..-.-..-.-..-.-..-----..----....-..-.----..-..-.----..--

    The iMatix Personnel Web System - PWS

    Using the technology of the Internet to solve a everyday problem, PWS is
    the answer to a long-standing problem for large organisations: how to
    locate staff members who may be anywhere within the building.
    
    PWS version 1.0 will be released for beta testing on April 1st, 1999.
    Elegant and modern, PWS is based entirely on Open Source software and
    the power of your company intranet.  Each staff member wears a small
    portable computer, the Universal Personnel Locator (UPL), which uses
    radio-frequency band-hopping technology to scan the intranet and
    allocate a dynamic IP address as soon as it comes within reach.

    The UPL is a fully self-contained web server, based on Spice Linux and
    Xitami, that responds to requests such as http://your.company/find?joe.
    Now, finding your secretary or chief programmer is as simple as reading
    the Dilbert of the Day.  Current UPL models are built from 100% recycled
    materials, and are securely anchored to the staff member's left foot
    using an unbreakable carbon-fibre cord.

    By using old computer cases, we also solve the problem of recycling all
    those old VAX, AS/400, and Data General boxes.  Fifty pounds may seem
    heavy to some, but adding some little wheels can help loads!  Version
    2.0 will handle stairs in real-time.

    Our researchers have also developed a sub-kilo UPL that can be implanted
    in the buttocks for those staff who have to move a lot.  They won't sit
    down on the job!  We're now developing a DNA-based nanotech version that
    will finally put intranet technology where it belongs.  Not in fridges,
    microwave ovens, or toasters, but in human beings!


 == INBOX -..-..---.-.---..-.-.-.--...---.....----.-.-.----....--.--...----.-

    From:     "banibrata dutta" <bdutta@hotmail.com>
    Subject:  Libero in Multi-threaded environment...
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Hi,
    I have been using Libero for about a year now, and I must tell you that
    I have found it really very useful, i.e. it is a RAD tool for sure,
    which expedites the whole process of writing code, so I have been able
    to spend more time on a robust design than a buggy-bugging code.  All
    through I have been using Libero for building Single-Threaded systems,
    but now I am in dire-need of using Libero in a Multi-threaded system,
    i.e. each of the threads of my process are FSMs in them selves.  How
    can i get Libero to do that for me. I know, if i plow thru the tonnes of
    docs, and Libero code, I'd make it, but I was asking, just in case you
    have a ready answer, and solution, s.t. my effort is reduced a bit. 
    TIA,
    -
    banibrata.

    >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
    The ready answer is: use SMT.  This is a complete multithreading add-on
    for Libero, so powerful that we have to keep it chained-up in a cellar
    under iMatix HQ.  SMT lets you create and manage multiple virtual
    parallel multithreaded independent asynchronous concurrent and indeed
    multitasking FSMs.


    From:     Jonathan Schultz <jschultz@tartarus.uwa.edu.au>
    Subject:  Parallel FSMs
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    I thought for about 2 minutes about Brad Dixon's problem in Liberetto
    99/3.  Your answer doesn't explain how to handle the events.  Brad seems
    to want to have one set of events (the incoming characters) drive two
    (or more) simultaneous pattern-matching FSMs.  So you simply use SMT,
    have a distribution thread, which accepts the incoming events and
    distributes them to each pattern-matching FSM running in its own thread.
    The thread which finds a match can pass an event back to the
    distribution thread, which can tell all the other threads to stop
    looking.  Piece of cake.
    -
    Jonathan


    From:     Ewen McNeill <ewen@imatix.com>
    Subject:  Re: Liberetto IV/3 
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    "Liberetto" said:
    > To be removed from this mailing list, e-mail us with the subject
    > 'remove'.  Liberetto should be taken once monthly, with food and drink.
    I wouldn't recommend taking with food and drink.  Not unless you've got
    an extensive supply of keyboards.  Liberetto is one of the things that
    I've learned not to eat/drink while reading; ASR is another.  BTW, the
    Y2KVP is far too realistic.
    -
    Ewen


    From:     Kenneth Ohaeri <ohaerik@yahoo.com>
    Subject:  Designing USing FSM and Libero Tool 
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    I am using the Windows 95/NT version of Libero in my design.  The print
    quality is great.  It has greatly improved the flow of my spec on paper.
    Is there a way I could generate the code in a text format so that I can
    copy it into my C source library or into other programming language
    editors?
    -
    Kenneth

    >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
    The Windows version of Libero is a front-end that lets you enter and
    print your dialog.  Frankly, it's not much easier than using a simple
    text editor, since the Libero dialog file is pretty easy to read in its
    plain text form.  We've often included the dialog as-is when we want to
    use it as doc.  You can also use Libero's own code generation abilities
    to turn a dialog into a formatted document.  There are examples of this
    in the imatix.com web site (the Archives section).
    Lastly, it's pretty simple, if you've mastered Visual Basic, or some
    other GUI language, to read a dialog file and turn it into a drawing on
    the screen or a metafile that you can stick into a document.  True,
    Libero does not do this, but all the code is there for you to play with,
    so don't be shy...
    By the way: Libero for Windows was written using MS Visual Basic 3,
    quite fun, but a terrible amount of work.  This experience was one of
    our main motivations for moving towards 100% portable tools, using a
    web interface when necessary.  Portability is just so much cheaper.


    From:     "Devin Barlow" <dbarlow@deusxmachina.com>
    Subject:  register
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

    Gosh - have you guys considered developing an OS?  I could use something
    as beautiful as Xitami.  Thank you thank you for such a wonderful
    product.  I made the move tonight from IIS 3.0 to Xitami, in literally
    30 seconds - stop services from Internet Service Manager, uninstall IIS
    3.0, install Xitami, copy web page files over to \webpages.  Done.
    I went from a 5MB footprint to 1.8MB, and my performance is an order of
    magnitude better.
    You rock.
    Hey, can I have a "Powered by Xitami" gif for my site?

    >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
    Stop it, we're blushing!  Well, if you want a suggestion for an OS, try
    Linux.  You'll find it efficient and transparent.  Also very politically
    correct.  No-one got fired for proposing a Beowulf Linux cluster in
    place of that clunky old mainframe.  See the Guru Guide For Idiots below.


    From:         "Gillian Bates"  <sosueme2@hotmail.com>
    To:           editors@imatix.com
    Subject:      Stop bashing Microsoft!  Get a life!!
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Hey guys,
    Why are you always bashing Microsoft?  Bill Gates has created lots of
    jobs, and Windows is much easier to use than DOS ever was.  I don't
    want to have to learn linux just to send my emails.  Go stick your head
    in a bucket!
    -
    Gillian

    >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
    We sometimes get e-mails from people complaining that we unfairly bash
    Microsoft.  Untrue!  Our bashing is entirely fair, we think, and we're
    happy to extend our wrath to any large or small company that produces
    rotten software in pretty packaging.  We're not partisan, just an
    independent needle in the haystack of hype that this business floats
    on.  Hey, who wrote DOS, anyhow?
    

 == FOCUS ON TECHNOLOGY --...--.-.--.....--.-.-.---...--.--...-..---...-..-.-

    This month, we look at the iMatix SFL, short for the 'Standard Function
    Library'.  We've brought the microphones and cameras down to the dusty
    corridors of Level -5, deep below iMatix World Empire Headquarters, to
    speak to the chief architect of SFL, an elusive hacker known publicly
    only as 'Joe@imatix.com'.  After a long search, we find Joe huddled in
    a dark room, talking intensely to a coke machine.

    Liberetto: Joe, can we talk?
    Joe: $the_next_event = $ok_event;

    Liberetto: Cool.  Can you tell us how the SFL got started?
    Joe: if (not portable) then work *= 100;

    L.: You mean that writing non-portable applications is a lot of work
    for nothing.  So you decided it was worth creating a standard library
    that would fix this for once and for all?
    J.: ASSERT (TRUE); code (clean) == code (portable);

    L.: I see.  The SFL makes it possible to write fully portable code,
    since all the low-level non-portable stuff is hidden in a clean, easy
    to use, and well-tested library.  A program that uses the SFL instead
    of its own non-portable code is automatically portable to any present
    or future platform.
    J.: repeat (TRUE);

    L.: But why does the SFL only support ANSI C applications.  What about
    Java, C++, Perl, and Python??
    J.: Awk!  Language {Choice} != $important;

    L.: You're saying that people tend to focus on the choice of language,
    for instance debating the virtues of Java over ActiveX, when the real
    issue is that most developers are forced to work without decent tools,
    thus wasting time and money, and re-inventing the wheel every time they
    need it?  But surely SFL misses out on the Object revolution?
    J.: egrep "plus ca change, plus ca reste la meme" *.*;  objects = "NFG"

    L.: That's a harsh charge.  Granted, the Internet did not arise out of
    an OO approach, but rather from the drive to create open and reusable
    standards.  So, according to you, object-orientation makes the technical
    environment more complex, rather than less so, and complexity is the
    real problem confronting most programmers...
    J.: ASSERT; SFL = "simple abstraction", like (Libero, GSL); 
    OOPS .. interrupt (SIG_WC)!

    L.: Sure, and thanks for the interview!
    J.: STOP RUN, EXIT


 == OPINION -..--...--..--...--..--...---.-.-.-.--...-.-...---....-.-.--..--.

    Occasionally we make the iMatix soapbox available to guest speakers who,
    let's put it gently, have opinions that interest us.  This month, Jim
    Bowlin explains why NT goes against all that is natural.  Perhaps the
    start of a new trend, green software?  Eco-programmers, up to their chins
    in fertiliser...  makes you wonder.  Anyhow, on with the show!!

    - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -

    > Incidentally, what server software are you using?  I'd like to know
    > what to avoid as we are considering new servers.

    I was running NT.  The server has now been up for more than 24 hours.
    There were many, many reinstallations of the OS and upgrades to the OS
    followed by the reinstallation of all of our software only to have the
    server crash again and again.

    There were at least three different problems that all together made
    things very difficult:

     1) Previous NT crashes wiped out some capabilities that then caused it
        to crash more which made it more likely to crash and so on, in a
        downward spiral.

     2) Versions of NT below SP-3 or SP-4 would bring up the blue screen of
        death at random times but no report of where the problem came from.

     3) I ***think*** that the XXXXXX ftp server is not compatible with the
        SP-3 or SP-4 upgrades.  This caused the entire windows system to
        lock up at random times.  Again no report of what was causing the
        error.

    All of these problems are rooted in Microsoft's fundamental design
    philosophy which is based upon restricting the flow of information.
    They don't provide me with enough information to fix their code and
    the code the provide me with is buggy.

    IF they wrote perfect code, and IF they provided full documentation,
    and IF they provided all of the software needed to configure the server
    properly and IF I only wanted to do things that they have already
    thought I would want to do THEN there would not have been any problems.

    However, their code is buggy and crashy.  It is not well documented, the
    source code is not available.  Furthermore, they do not provide working
    software in a timely manner that I need such as an FTP server and a
    "chmod" that works from the command line.  Thus I am forced to get third
    party software to fill in the gaps left by Microsoft.  But then since
    there are still some pretty major bugs in the NT OS (causing system
    crashes with no error logging, etc.), massive upgrades to the OS are
    needed (SP-4 was over 70 Megabytes).  Because of their paternalistic
    attitude (or perhaps corporate greed), they do not make sure that these
    upgrades are backward compatible with the 3rd party software that I
    needed to get around the bugs in the software that came from Microsoft.
    They keep pulling the rug out from under the 3rd party developers who
    created working versions of the flawed Microsoft software.

    Early on in my 20+ years as a hardware and software designer I realized
    that there is one key point that needs to be addressed when designing
    computer systems --stability.

    Computer systems are very complicated with layers upon layers upon
    layers of hardware and software.  If any one of these layers does not
    respond appropriately regardless of what input it is given, it makes
    working at higher layers very, very difficult because you don't know
    where the problems are coming from.

     1) Stable hardware is designed so that no matter what software is run,
        the hardware will not damage itself.

     2) Stable operating systems (which launch and provide services for
        other programs) continue to run no matter what the subprograms try
        to do.

     3) Stable programs continue to run no matter what input is provided by
        the user.

    This all boils down to a very simple idea: each layer needs to totally
    isolate itself from problems arising from the next level up.  Each layer
    needs to always respond appropriately.  This simple idea has been
    revolutionizing the computer industry and has spawned the development of
    new computer languages such as Java, Perl, and Python, all of which
    strive to be stable computer languages.

    Furthermore, one of the prime motivations for the object oriented
    revolution that has been transforming the software industry for the past
    ten years programming is to allow programmers to create stable libraries
    of reusable code that will always respond appropriately.

    The NT operating system is not stable.

    These seven words are reason enough to never use NT if there is a stable
    alternative.  They should cast fear into the heart of anyone that wants
    to run a reliable server with the NT operating system.

    The reason that this is such a severe problem is that with an unstable
    operating system, the only way to make the entire system is stable (i.e.
    no crashes) is to ensure that EVERY SINGLE PROGRAM running on the system
    under EVERY POSSIBLE SET OF INPUTS AND CONDITIONS never ever executes a
    series of instructions that causes the operating system to crash.

    Since there can be hundreds of programs and for each program there is a
    countless range of possible inputs (initialization parameters, other
    programs running, timing, etc.) systems crashes are almost inevitable.
    This problem is compounded by the fact that the set of conditions that
    cause NT to crash is changing with time.

    There is an alternative to this madness: Linux.

    The Linux operating system is *much* more stable than NT.  It is already
    the most popular OS on the internet today. More server on the internet
    are running Linux than any other single operating system and this
    percentage is growing rapidly.  The main reasons for this are:

     1) Linux is *much* more stable than NT.
     2) Linux runs on many different platforms
     3) Linux is open source

    Linux runs on a large variety of hardware platforms (including iX86,
    sparc, alpha, powerPC, and others). It is getting ported to other
    platforms such as IBM RS/6000.  This means that if you are running
    Linux, it is possible to upgrade to a more powerful hardware platform.

    Linux is "open source software" which means that you can have access to
    all of the source code that was used to create the operating system.
    This is the ultimate in full documentation.  If even just one user in a
    thousand looks at the source code when she runs into a problem, this
    translates to thousands of people debugging the software.  No commercial
    company can match this effort.  Even Microsoft has admitted this in an
    internal memo that was leaked to the press, now known as the "Halloween
    Documents".

    All of the software that you need to run a server (and the vast majority
    of all of the software that runs on Linux) is also open source.  So all
    of the benefits of open source software extend to the programs that are
    running on Linux.

    None of the problems that I experienced with NT would have arisen if NT
    were open source.  All of the problems stemmed from the fact that NT is
    a proprietary operating system which is based upon the hiding of
    information.  Microsoft was able to become the world's largest company
    by a combination of two things:

       1) the economy of scale of the software industry and,
       2) restricting information flow

    The economy of scale of the software industry is very simple but it is
    different from most other industries.  It costs me the same time and
    effort to write a program that 10 people use as it does to write a
    program that 10 million people use.  Mass produced software costs are
    entirely in initial outlay -- the per item cost is zero.  This is
    because software is entirely composed of information.  In most other
    industries involving mass production, the initial expenses can be
    amortized over many items and the total expenses are dominated by the
    non zero per item cost.

    Microsoft was able to use this economy of scale to create a vast
    accumulation of wealth by intentionally creating a bottleneck in the
    flow of information.  Every time someone squeezed through the
    bottleneck, they had to pay Microsoft.  The vast power of the software
    economy of scale was feeding Microsoft's wealth at the expense of
    everyone who used their software.  Microsoft got rich and we got buggy
    software which we were entirely dependent upon Microsoft to fix.

    The open source movement uses a different approach to harnessing the
    vast power that was responsible for creating Microsoft's wealth:

       1) the economy of scale of the software industry and,
       2) open access to information.

    This inverts the outcome of the Microsoft scenario.  We get much
    better software that can be cooperatively debugged but the developers
    do not get paid directly for their work.

    This may seem like a startling new concept but it is really as old as
    the hills -- older even.  There has always been an evolution from
    closed information systems to more open information systems and the
    open, cooperative systems tend to win out.  Kropotkin explained how
    this works in his book "Mutual Aid: A Factor in Evolution".  The
    development of language was a major turning point in human evolution.
    The reason language was so important is that it allowed us humans to
    cooperate better.  We could work together to solve problems, gang up
    on other species, and individuals could specialize in solving certain
    tasks.  We could also use language to pass information on to
    seceding generations and thus develop cultures and civilizations.

    A similar revolution took place a billion years earlier when the only
    living things on earth were single celled creatures living in the
    primordial sea.  At some point these single celled critters started to
    cooperate and share information.  These groups started to enjoy the
    same benefits that humans received when language developed.  The cells
    could work together to solve problems, gang up on other cells, and
    individual cells could specialize in solving certain tasks.  When
    these groups of cells were finally able to recreate their cooperative
    structure in seceding generations a new day dawned in evolution and
    multi-celled organisms sprang into life.  Take a walk outside anywhere
    to see the wonders that this revolution in cooperation created.

    There are many other examples of revolutionary leaps created by
    improvements in information flow allowing better cooperation.  Some of
    the highlights include: democracy, monetary currency, written
    language, and movable type.

    I encourage you to embrace the open software movement and participate
    in this apparently new form of human cooperation.  Don't be frightened
    off by people who claim that it is "new" or "strange" or "just a flash
    in the pan" or a "passing phase".  There is a rich history of
    cooperative systems overcoming uncooperative systems.  It is what our
    bodies are based on.  It is the basis of life itself.  It is the most
    natural thing in the world.

    -- Jim Bowlin <bowlin@sirius.com>


 == GURU SECTION -..-..-.----...-..----..-.....----.-.-.-.-.----...----...--.

    This month we bring you a special feature called the "Idiot's Guide to
    Being a Computer Guru".  Just memorize this simple guide and apply it
    during meetings, at the coffee machine, and at presentations.  You'll
    soon acquire extra inches in stature as people admire your skills and
    derring-do as a true Computer Guru.

    1.  Acquire your own web site, and fill it with eclectic links to other
        sites, such as astalavista.box.sk, w3.org, and microsoft.com. 

    2.  When anyone describes a new product or technology, ask whether
        they've already have a domain name for it, and when the answer is
        negative, shake your head from left to right and make a sympathetic
        but resigned tut-tut noise.  If the answer is positive, ask how
        they host it, and whatever they say, shake your head sadly.

    3.  Ask 'But does it work with XML?' whenever anyone describes a new
        tool, technology, or product.  When the answer is 'no', produce a
        copy of the book 'XML For Dummies' and tell them it's a good read,
        not too complex for beginners.  When the answer is 'yes', ask
        whether they use a SGML engine, or actually wrote the XML interface
        by hand.  Whatever the answer is, do the head-shaking-tut-tutting
        thing.  Remember these key arguments: SGML is way too complex for
        normal people.  SGML is the only really generic approach to mark-up
        languages.

    4.  Make sure you have installed Linux on a PC, and never switch it off.
        Then you can boast that you have had Linux running for X months at
        your place, and never needed to reboot it.

    5.  Keep track of which companies have brought-out a Linux package
        recently, or are promising one.  All references to IBM, Compaq, Sun,
        Oracle, and HP score bonus points.  All references to Microsoft with
        respect to Linux score double bonus points.  References to Windows
        2000 except in the past-tense score triple negative points.

    6.  When anyone refers to a product or technology running on NT, ask
        whether it runs on Linux.  If the answer is 'no', do the shake-tut.
        If 'yes', ask whether it runs on all distributions.  Again, if
        'yes', ask whether it also runs on the Macintosh.  With a little
        luck, the victim will hesitate, in which case you can demand to
        know whether it's really portable or not.

    7.  Complain that your old 30Gb hard disk is almost full, and that your
        Pentium II 650 is just too slow for compressing MP3 music tracks.
        Multiply these figures by 50% every 6 months to stay current.

    8.  Complain that your ADSL connection or cable-modem is too slow for
        the number of visitors to your personal site (see point 1).  When
        people ask what you have on your site, raise one eyebrow and say
        cryptically that if they don't know what it is, they don't want it.
        On your web site, make a sign-on page that demands a password and
        lets no-one past.

    9.  When people mention the Y2K problem, sigh and say that if only folk
        would dare to implement Y2KVP (see Liberetto IV/3), there would be
        no need for everyone to go back to learning how to make fires by
        rubbing two floppy disks together.

    10. When asked for an opinion on the purchase or use of a large Unix
        system (like Sun, HP, Digital or IBM), say that you could group
        twenty PCs with a 100Mhz network, put Beowulf Linux onto them, and
        thus create a supercomputer that would be as fast as a ten-million
        dollar Cray, let alone their puny minicomputer.  In an afternoon.
        Heck, if IBM could do it, so could you!!
        
    11. Never forget the three principal rules for trouble-shooting a
        malfunctioning device: (1) is it plugged in? (2) is it switched on?
        (3) is it running Windows? (4) did you reboot it recently?

    12. A Computer Guru does not get computer viruses, being immune to such
        common indiscretions.  However, screaming disk crashes, exploding
        power supplies, meteorites, experimental Linux kernel modules, and
        repulsed Internet attacks are all good reasons to explain why your
        agenda was wiped, and hence you were late for the meeting.

    13. Remember that clothes make the guru.  Keep a supply of impeccable
        suits for occasions where you don't feel like working.  People will
        inevitably invite you to meetings (see next point).  When you want
        to work, wear old jeans and an unwashed t-shirt, and eat lots of
        humus the day before (see Liberetto III/1).  You'll get a room all
        to yourself.

    14. Do not try to save money on gadgets.  Gadgets are an essential part
        of the Guru image.  The current hot item is a mini-disc player for
        recording meetings.  Of course, you can then upload meetings onto
        your PC, distort the voices to sound like Pinky and Perky, compress
        them into MP3 formats, publish them on your website, and distribute
        them to your colleagues on CD-ROM.  One CD should hold about 35
        hours, or a month's worth of meetings.
    
    15. Whenever anyone says anything smart, say: "Oh, did you read that in
        Liberetto too?"


 == TERMINATE THE PROGRAM -...---...-..----....-.---..---...-...---.-...---.-

    To be removed from this mailing list, e-mail us.  All major credit cards
    are accepted.  The editors of Liberetto assume no responsibility for
    wars, earthquakes, hurricanes, satellite explosions, corrupt government
    officials, Windows 2000 Enterprise Edition, the internal combustion
    engine, Y2K, instant whisky, spontaneous abdominal implosions, instant
    coffee, the movie "Very Bad Things", other people's children, other
    drivers, or Mondays.  Please do not try to drive and read Liberetto at
    the same time.  Caution: Contents may be Hot.

