     =
--- === ---------------------------------------------------------------------
  =======    -L- -I- -B- -E- -R- -E- -T- -T- -O-               September 1999
 =========
  =======    The iMatix Newsletter                          Volume IV Issue 9
--- === ---------------------------------------------------------------------
     =              Copyright (c) 1999 iMatix Corporation - distribute freely
                                         Back issues at http://www.imatix.com
                                              Comments to: editors@imatix.com

    Programming -- Technology -- Finite State Machines -- News -- Other Stuff


 == COMMENT ---...-.-...-.--...-.--...-.-...-.....---..-....--.--..-.-.---.--

    What I found curious about the exploit that shut-down Microsoft's MSN
    Hotmail web mail service for two hours on Monday morning was not the
    fact that a small group of guys were able to crack a system used daily
    by over 40 million people.  Hotmail is designed more for features than
    security.  What I found unusual was the media coverage.  After years of
    exploits on all kinds of systems, often on Microsoft's web servers and
    browsers, I was a little surprised to hear the BBC call it the 'worst
    Internet security breach ever'.  Whatever.
    
    That Microsoft would expose itself to such bad publicity says a lot.
    Certainly, we'll hear a lot of spin about how this is all the fault of
    the evil hackers involved.  Probably there will be prosecutions and
    lawsuits.  The fact remains that it was a bad day for Microsoft.

    Microsoft is like an agressive dog - it's only really happy when it has
    its jaws around some rival's throat, head down and teeth on the jugular.
    The history of the (personal) computer business reads like a trophy
    list for Microsoft: Digital Research, IBM, Lotus, WordPerfect, Apple,
    Novell, Borland and Netscape
    
    Microsoft's taste for meat has a flip-side, however.  Each fight they
    pick and win with a market leader leaves them changed.  After beating
    WordPerfect and Lotus into the ground, Microsoft was producing a great
    (if buggy) word processor and spreadsheet.  When Borland was finally
    buried, Microsoft's Visual C++, FoxPro and Visual Basic tools actually
    looked quite good.  Solid, and reliable.  Nothing like the Microsoft
    compilers we used to know when Borland's Turbo C first came out.

    To beat IBM, Microsoft became an Enterprise Company, building its
    principal client base at the corporate level.  Home computer users
    steal all their software anyhow.  Windows NT took over the dying
    minicomputer market, and Microsoft took over IBM's role of selling
    expensive solutions to people too poor to form an expert opinion and
    too rich to be bankrupted by the solution.
    
    Fighting Netscape left Microsoft in a state of mutant entwinement with
    the Web, mail, and the infinite desktops of cyberspace.  How could one
    ask Microsoft to separate Internet Explorer from Windows when the
    Internet is a core philosophy in its Operating Systems division?
    
    So, what's today's fight all about?  It looks like Microsoft is moving
    from software to services.  The market leader in Internet services is
    AOL.  Microsoft and AOL are fighting it out, first through their
    proxies, Hotmail and Netscape, but soon chin-to-chin.  AOL makes
    excellent money acting as ISP for their millions of users.  Microsoft
    has announced that it will start providing free Internet access,
    presumably along the lines of the free ISP providers we've seen in the
    UK and elsewhere.  This is aimed directly at AOL's throat.  AOL may
    survive if it can counter-attack, or present a moving target.

    The Hotmail episode shows that Microsoft is risking much by this move.
    It is hard to win a battle for the hearts of millions of consumers who
    think of you as the Sheriff of Nottingham, and the hackers as Robin
    Hood.  My guess is that Microsoft's attack on AOL will fail, and that
    they will move upmarket to corner the corporate Internet market, which
    is almost mature.  Then they will use this position to wipe AOL from
    the board.

    Whatever happens, history has two lessons.  First, that Microsoft wins
    every fight it can provoke.  Secondly, every fight changes it, often
    radically.  The idea of Microsoft as the world's leading ISP should
    give pause for thought.

    Pieter Hintjens
    Antwerpen
    1 September 1999


 == INBOX -..-..---.-.---..-.-.-.--...---.....----.-.-.----....--.--...----.-

    To:             	editors@imatix.com
    From:           	savvas xenophontos <fiftybmg@operamail.com>
    Subject:        	RE: Liberetto IV/8
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    I recently made the decision to migrate to Linux from NT4 on my laptop, 
    because I was heartily sick of having to rebuild the NT OS whenever
    someone farted nearby. The prospect of upgrading memory and hard disk
    for NT5 was unappealing. I purchased S.u.S.E 5.3, and it practically
    installed itself : I had to fiddle a little with the X-Server video mode
    setup, but I got the laptop to boot and recognise all it's bits in a
    couple of hours. Initially, I was crawling painfully though steps that
    were simple for me on NT, like locating applications, peripheral setup
    and configurations. I was determined to suffer through it though,
    because I would be damned before I erected the the NT5 megalith. It has
    taken me a few months now to become reasonably familiar with my Linux
    environment, and I am happy with the change. I can do everything on
    Linux I could on NT, the only difference is that on Linux, all the apps
    I use are Open Source or Freeware. To date I haven't had to re-install
    Linux. Once I am reasonable skilled on Linux, I can see no reason not
    to replace my work machine's NT4 with it too.
    Yes, I am not into tatto parlours.
    -- Savvas


    To:             	editors@imatix.com
    From:           	<jeff.covey@pobox.com>
    Subject:        	Re: Liberetto IV/8
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Pieter Hintjens <ph@imatix.com> writes:
    Pieter> Well, I'm still with NT
    what do you need?  do you need someone to come over to the office and
    apply a dopeslap to wake you up?  it's a long haul, but i'd be willing 
    to do it if that's what it takes.
    Pieter> If I install Linux on a PC for a friend, I'll spend the
    Pieter> next three months explaining why you need to 'unmount' the
    Pieter> CD before swapping it.
    i would rather install it once, show him how to unmount a cd, and then 
    forget about it forever (as i've done several times) than drive over
    to his house every few weeks to reinstall windows after it eats itself 
    alive.
    -- Jeff Covey


    To:             	editors@imatix.com
    Subject:        	Re: Liberetto IV/8
    From:               "Eric S. Raymond" <esr@thyrsus.com>
    Organization:   	Eric Conspiracy Secret Labs
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Pieter Hintjens <ph@imatix.com>:
    > There is a theory that explains why some people like to eat hot spicy
    > food...
    No longer just a theory, it's been clinically tested.  The method was
    interesting.  There's a drug called Naloxone that's an endorphin
    blocker; it temporarily mucks up the receptors in the brainstem.  They
    give it to junkies to make smack uninteresting.
    The experiment: find a bunch of pepperheads.  Feed 'em hot food, watch
    'em grin.  Wait a few hours. Give 'em Naloxone.  Repeat.  Watch them
    experience the same food with their endorphin response blocked.  Ouch...
    > If this theory is correct, it may explain many other bizarre forms
    > of obviously painful behaviour.
    Elevator music.  This has to explain elevator music.  So, you think
    Naloxone might be useful in the treatment of Windows addiction?
    -- Eric S. Raymond

    >>>>>>>>>>>>>>>
    Aha, great idea.  Eric's comment stimulated our hyperactive editor-on-
    a-leash to write an article for Segfault.org, which starts as follows:
    
    "Small White Pill could cure Windows forever
    "Researchers at the Swedish Institute for Human Studies announced
    Friday that they have discovered the cure for Windows, and it's a
    small white pill. This astounding claim stems from findings made by
    the team during tests into Human Long-lasting Low-level Pain Addiction
    Syndrome (HLLPAS).  Apparently, people stick with Windows even after
    repeated exposures to pain for the same reasons that they get tattooed
    and pierced, eat spicy food, live in Pittsburgh, and listen to elevator
    music."

    More on Segault.org, if it's working today.  Last time we looked, this
    site was kinda messed-up.  They're not using Xitami, it appears.

    
    To:             	editors@imatix.com
    From:           	"Meyer Jean-Francois" <jf.meyer@bipharco.be>
    Subject:        	libero 
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Historically, did you start Libero working from the Kermit WART FSM
    generator derivated from Lex?
    -- JFM  

    Historically, Libero has nothing to do with Lex except the first
    letter, and nothing to to with Wart except the funny name.  Anyhow, we
    asked someone who knows about this (it appears his cousin knew a guy who
    was married to the office secretary at the time) to provide the Real
    History of Libero (are you ready?):
    
    In 1980 or so, some genius in Belgium decided that FSMs were a good way
    to write an IBM/CICS accounting system.  On-line applications, even an
    accounting system, can be nicely designed as event-handling FSMs.  The
    first such FSMs were coded by hand.  This is like brushing your teeth
    by moving your head rapidly against a toothbrush fixed in the floor.
    Another genius (Leif Svalgaard, someone so clever that ten years after
    this story, someone was seen to be keeping Leif's slippers in a
    carboard box as a kind of magic talisman) wrote a tool, the 'Dialog
    Designer', that could generate the FSMs automatically.  This tool was
    part of the ETK toolkit, still alive and kicking on etk.com.  Leif's
    tool was so good that his company used it for dozens of projects, and
    several tens of thousands of large, complex programs.  One of the
    hackers who worked with Leif, Pieter Hintjens, was so impressed by this
    way of working that he tried to apply it to everything he did.  After a
    tragic episode with a waffle iron, he decided to apply it only to
    software, with much better results.  Libero is basically Leif's tool
    concept, redesigned to generate code in any language.

    Kermit, on the other hand, is a small green stuffed frog.


 == TERMINATE THE PROGRAM -...---...-..----....-.---..---...-...---.-...---.-

    Yes, this month's Liberetto is short and salty, rather than sweet.
    This is what happens when the bulk of the editorial board leave on
    trips to exotic warm countries, leaving just us frustrated sub-editors
    to hack something together.  I warned them: folk will be unsubscribing
    in droves if they don't get their monthly dose.  Which reminds me of a
    joke:

    An Englishman was travelling through India some years ago, by train, in
    a first-class cabin.  After the first night, he was horribly bitten by
    some kind of insect in the bedsheets.  He complained to the steward,
    who went pale with dismay, and promised to immediately fire the entire
    washing crew, burn the kitchens, torture the maid, etc.  The
    Englishman received a formal apology from the Head Steward, saying how
    unfortunate this incident was, the first time in fifty years, and how
    the entire honour of the train cabin staff had been sullied, so they
    would be abject in their service etc, etc.  Satisfied, the Englishman
    retired, only to notice the post-it note stuck to the back of the
    letter, reading 'Send him the usual bug letter'.

    As if we would do such a thing at iMatix Corporation!

    To unsubscribe, just send us an e-mail.
